Marketing Essay Practice


The entrepreneurs point of view:
        Market demand - is it something people want
        Market structure - can you get an offering in the marketplace, will people choose it over the competition
        Margin analysis - can we get it to the customer and still make a profit


7 Ps of marketing:
        Product, price, promotion, people, place, physical evidence, processes


Tesla as a case study




To begin with, Tesla mastered product development. Electrical vehicles had no existing market, and no existing products. Tesla came in around 2003 at the perfect time since the market demand was just beginning. Upon the millennium the global warming problem become a global issue that was debated publicly. This gave rise to the need to reduce the use and reliance on combustion engine transport. This worked for Tesla since they did not have to worry about market structure (there wasnt a market yet), and also they knew that market demand was beginning to grow.


With an offer and customer driven business model, Tesla had a huge chance to take high market share in a rapidly growing market - known as a ‘star’ in the Boston Consulting Group Matrix. This would guarantee consistent profit margins that were forecasted to grow in the future. So with this strong foundation, all that was left to do was apply the seven Ps of marketing.


I argue that Tesla executes the placement and physical evidence of their offering amazingly. They innovated a ‘Tesla only’ global charging grid, with their brand and logo being displayed on each charger. These charges not only are in the same place as every other EV charger, but they can only be used by Tesla models, and are much much quicker than proprietary chargers. This acts as a constant advert for their brand, people in non EV vehicles, and even people in other brand EVs, are constantly being presented with teslas message.


As well as this they segment their market well. Their wide range of models satisfy various customer types, from speed chasers, to family cars, and even off road and long distance vehicles, all models meet these needs. For example the tesla model S is one of the fastest legal road cars, even competing with supercars. As well as this their larger models offer the best leg room and boot space due to the saved room using a battery rather than an engine. This allows them to target and position to multiple market segments with ease, as quickly and cheaply as possible. This obviously covers the ‘product’ section of the seven Ps showing how their product compares to other EV competitors, or alternatives.


Their promotion programs also excel. They are one of very few companies to offer on demand, un-accompanied test drives. This really sells their transparency to the customer and implies a level of trust, before a purchase is even discussed. However, here you could argue that their ‘people’ has a small gap. Unlike large car manufacturers who develop engined cars as well as EVs, tesla have less dealership and technician presence across the UK specifically. This is a gap they could try and cover in order to increase customer relationships.


Their price point in historical sales has been a negative of Tesla, they have always been considered at the higher price point. This can be both good and bad, there is a fine balance point. Being too cheap can imply poor quality to the customer and they may not want to purchase due to feeling risk to their status. But being too expensive can make product differentiation futile and customers will buy elsewhere despite impressive product features. However in recent years, tesla have released ‘Standard’ versions of each model at reduced price points, but with stripped back features. This is a step in the right direction, but if they want to widen their market more fundamental margin changes may be suitable.


This leads onto what Teslas main strategy focus entails. They definitely do not focus on cost leadership, but they are instead quality led. They have innovative features which other EV providers do not capture in their products. For example, their self driving features, and premium in car infotainment systems. The company is also willing to invest to develop features further and strong marketing factors also helps. They should however be careful, if other EV providers start imitating the tesla principles their differential may begin to erode.


Overall, Tesla came into an emerging market masterfully, and that is why they still hold strong market share. They promote, place and display their product well, but could potentially use some work on their people, processes and price points in order to guarantee business success in the future.