========= Practicing a PESTLE analysis before exam ==============

--- Industry - Electric Vehicles in the UK --

One of the biggest advantages of electric vehicles as market is that it has strengths in the environmental sense. Electric vehicles as we know do not emit harmful greenhouse gasses meaning that our environmental impact would be better than other markets such as petrol cars. As well as this, our customers will be decreasing nationwide petrol and deisel usage by purchasing our EV. This adds to the environmental benefit further since less un-renewables are being consumed. However, of course we need to be careful still. The way our EVs are developed, serviced, and eventially disposed of needs to be environmentally friendly. Construction could release lots of carbon, as well as disrupting environments with factories giving light and noise pollution. As well as this the repairs and disposal of the vehicles needs to support as much recycling as possible to prevent harm.

This leads on well to the legal side of things. With the current legal environment, EVs are a good choice. They avoid violating laws such as the ULEZ regulations, as well as nationwide regulations on emissions. Our product will also promote the move to electric transport over other methods. However, again there can be negatives here. There will definitely be laws regulating construction methods, battery ranges, charging methods and so on. As well as this the EV industry is still relatiely fresh, and so the legal landscape is subject to change - such as battery safety regulations and recycling laws. However as long as we are careful not to breach any laws, and keep analysing the future regulations, we should have a legal advantage.

The political landscape also has a big impact on out venture. If the political landscape tends toward a green view then our venture will be supported, and there may even be tax reductions or financial grants/benefits for our company. As well as this the financial gain to customers will provide some natural marketing for us. However we should analyse the political landscape carefully, as if there are conflicts with resource suppliers it will negatively impact us. For example if we had conflict with silver and gold rich countries then the cost of manufacturing our batterys and microprocessors in our vehicles will increase and negatively impact our margins. Therefore we should hedge this risk with futures markets in comodities such as these.

Due to this social factors also have a big role. If people are 'green earthers' or not governs our target market. We should use this wisely when marketing and advertising, wasting money advertising to car enthusiasts, or capitalists may be a waste of time. Lots of people will be predisposed to neglecting EV brands and so we could harm our brand. However social factors on the whole I think will benefit us, there will start to be a snowball effect of reliable transport and people who do not follow will be made a bad point of. A key social factor to appeal to is personal taste, we should try to uphold a brand car enthusiasts will still identify with despite being EV - e.g. make it have a sport mode or make it look raceable.

The economic impact is on the whole benoficial. Government and enterprise schemes praise EV driving, with lots of jobs providing incentives for choosing EVS, and governments easing any tax and providing cheap lease schemes for EVs. this gives us a good entry point as buying an EV technically saves car drivers money. However the things we need to be careful with are commodity and material prices. If the economy wide use of gold, silver, prescious metals etc increases then our margins will be impacted. This is als very likely due to how popular the EV scene is becoming - almost every car brand has an EV now, even sports brands. As well as this, due to EVs being competitive in price we need to price carefully, so that we outprice big competitors, but still make a sustainable profit margin. This will be the biggest economic challenge.

The technological front has a few potential negative impacts. There is a dominant field into biofuels, which in the future may become more and more viable. This would lead to future loss of market, and customers especially who enjoy engines will want to switch away from EVs. As well as this if nationwide travel infrastructure continues technologically improving the social demand for EVs may decrease. For example of reliable high speed trains connect majot cities, people may settle for pedal bikes and walking as transport links are so quick. However tech development can also add appeal for our product. If we succeed in self driving, parking, battery improvements and safety technology, we could become household name thet people will desire. For example if we made a breakthrough battery range that exceeds all other brands we will concrete ourselves in the market.

To conclude, the EV indsutry is very appealing in the current world, specifically economically and politically. However there are still points we need to be concerned with, specifically social behvaiours, and potential future impacts legally and economically for electrical vehicles. 
